Israel's prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu has rejected calls from
protesters for his resignation he said
early elections would only benefit Hamas
and jeopardized negotiations for the
release of hostages huge crowds of
protesters blocked roads in Jerusalem on
Sunday as they marched to the parliament
adding to the pressure on the Prime
Minister tens of thousands gathered in
Jerusalem for the beginning of a 4-day
rally it's the largest anti-government
demonstration since the October 7
terrorist
attack many are fed up with the failure
to secure the release of hostages held
by Hamas among other things and are
calling for an early election so what
I'm doing here is trying to change the
government because this government is a
complete and utter failure and the only
way they will lead us into the abyss
that we will never come out of faced
with increasing pressure to resign
Israeli prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu is standing his
ground the calls for elections now
during a war right before a victory
would paralyze Israel for at least a
half a year it would paralyze the
negotiation for the release of our
hostages and it would end the war before
its objectives are completed the first
one to benefit from this would be
Hamas keeping up the military pressure
coupled with quote flexibility in the
negotiations is netanyahu's plan to
secure the host's release a key part of
that plan is Rafa Israel's planned
operation there has sparked
International concerns warning of a
humanitarian
catastrophe but Netanyahu insists Israel
will go ahead with its
plan we will go into Rafa and eliminate
the humus battalions there there will be
no Victory without the operation in Rafa
and there will be no iory without the
elimination of the hamus battalions
there as the fighting goes on Israel's
delegation has arrived in Egypt for
fresh ceasefire talks but both sides
have cast doubt on whether there will be
a breakthrough this time they say the
gap between their positions is still too
wide joining us is Simon Mayon a Middle
East Analyst at Lancaster University
good to have you with us uh Netanyahu
just criticized protesters taking to the
streets to demand these early elections
saying it would just benefit Hamas if
you could start with your thoughts on
those
words yeah I I think we need to
contextualize this in the sense that
there has been a lot of anger directed
of Benjamin Netanyahu over the past
however many years uh most of his time
in office has been characterized by
anger frustration political divisiveness
and none more so than the past couple of
years he faces challenges from the right
from the religious right from people who
are frustrated at the religious right
there are pro uh protests and and
growing anger at the exclusion of
military service for members of the
hered community and so to say that this
is all about the the Hamas situation or
the inability to get the hostages back I
think is misguided and I think it points
to a much deeper frustration that is
brewing within Israeli Society at net
Yahoo's political Acumen and his
political
maneuverings so Simon the the the
pressure is mounting the frustration is
mounting but is there any sign of it
getting to him at this
point well we've heard reports that he
is due to undergo a medical procedure um
an unexpected one perhaps that is his
body responding to to stress in some way
shape or form but aside from that he is
maintaining his confident Cor outward
forceful Persona that has characterized
his his style of leadership he is
defiant in the face of seemingly Global
criticism of Israel's military offensive
in southern Gaza and he's defied in the
face of these protests which is
surprising given the scale of it and yet
not surprising given that if he would be
removed from Power then his legal
battles his own personal legal battles
would once again become Central in his
life an Israeli delegation suon arrived
in Cairo for truce talks but while
that's happening Netanyahu is saying
that there will be no victory over Hamas
without a military operation into
rougher so where does all that leave
hopes then of finding an
agreement well I guess this is why
diplomacy is the ultimate answer here
there has to be a diplomatic
breakthrough the Li of of huge numbers
of people are being directly affected by
ongoing military action in
Gaza the the hope of a ceasefire right
now is not looking good but I think it's
imperative to keep the talks going the
the growing pressure on all sides to
find some type of diplomatic solution
increases day by day and I would imagine
that is the hope of the International
Community that's certainly the hope of
Joe Biden and others that growing
International pressure will put a stop
to any Israeli plans to go into Rafa but
also to put pressure on Hamas to release
the hostages as well so it's it's
growing diplomatic pressure I guess so
again it's a case of the pressure
mounting everyone acknowledges the need
for an agreement but what is needed then
to find that to break the deadlock here
and find agreement in your
opinion well I guess the most important
thing as in all peace talks is trust you
need to be able to trust the other party
involved in the talks and right now
there is no level of trust there is no
degree of trust so in the absence of
trust there has to be someone to act as
an enforcer someone who can guarantee
that the terms agreed will be followed
through on and I guess that is is what
people have been trying to figure out
who that could be would it be gatar
would it be the UAE would it be the us
we still don't know exactly who that
that broker will be Egypt has tried to
play a role as well of course so that's
another important step and then it gets
to the nitty-gritty of what the various
sides want Israel of course wants the
hostages returned and that would be an
imperative that is a fundamental step
that has to be taken and then on the
other side Kamas wants to have
irreversible steps towards a two-state
solution and whether both sides and the
leaderships on both sides can agree to
those and what order they can agree to
those steps that's what is going to be
really tricky to figure out how can both
sides move forward maintaining the
necessary levels of trust making sure
that those steps are being enforced and
monitored by outside parties so that the
trust and the the dialogue and the
movement can be all flowing in the right
direction Simon mayborne Middle East
Analyst at Lancaster University great to
get your thoughts thank you
thank
you